Alti we are doing the refactored bit of our red green refactor loop.
And so as you can see here in our content browser.
Now we have a go cart movement component C plus plus class.
And if you go and have a look at it it actually does stuff it does a lot of stuff actually as you can
see here it's doing all the physics replication stuff.
So we are going to be looking at pulling out all that functionality from our go kart which is now looking
much much cleaner.
As you can see here there are tiny tiny amount of methods and fields in comparison to what it was before.
So let's dive in and see how it's done.
So let's quickly overview the refactored plan from the last lecture.
Now the first component we should go about building in this plan is the one with the fewest dependencies
because that means that it will work without the other compounds existing or without us having to significantly
change the way it works.
And the component that fits the bill is the movement component because the replication component uses
that.
So it would need to be there in order to use it from the replication component and the actor Well the
actor already exists and we're pulling parts out of it so it doesn't make sense to take it from there.
So the moon component is the one we are going to be working from in this lecture.
So let's go ahead and create this component in a real kind of dive into the real Avatar.
Go to and new in the content browser add a new C++ glass.
Then I'm going to head on down and look for the components.
Now there's a few types of component we can go for we can go for an active component or a scene component
the seam component is one that has a transformer we have no need to have a transform So I'm going to
go for the ACT component and go ahead hit next.
And we've got a Stew's name.
Now it's a movement component but it's specifically a moving component for the go cart so I'm going
to call it the go cart movement component.
No prises for initiative naming there.
Now remember I don't need to put the prefix in front of this on real somatically add the correct prefix
for whether it's a component or an actor or a struct and so on and so forth.
So we'll go ahead and let this compile into our project and I'm going to pause the video so you don't
have to wait for my compellation process if yours takes different about time you'll need to pause as
well.
So don't take too much longer for me.
If we go over into visual studio.
We're going to see that there is a go cart movement component.
H has been created.
And if we go and open up in the solution Explorer go to the sources go to crazy cats will see us also
a C plus file that didn't open up for some reason on my computer.
Nothing unusual there.
All the stuff you would usually expect.
So all we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and move the member declaration's across from the
go cart actor over to the component all the ones that we want at that.
By that I mean both the fields and the methods or using C++ terminology.
You be moving across the functions the member functions and the non static member variables or Fields
is a lot easier to say so let's go over to the go kart or H and the first thing were going to move across.
I see a method called simulate move and create move both of these to do with simulating physics and
movement.
So let's cut those out and bring those across to the head far.
I'm going to put them in a new private section here like so.
What next.
So go back to the go kart or h.
Not clear acknowledge moves but get air resistance from rolling resistance apply rotation basically
all the way down.
To the.
Move forward and move right.
We're not going to include So all the way down to line 90 on my screen.
I'm going to cut out and we're going to put those in to the go cart movement component.
Now I'm going to fix the indentation from pasting those you propertys cause they always get messed up
with michale Studios indentation.
And then we go back into the go cart to H.
Anything else yes.
Velocity.
That's going to come across.
Let's bring the velocity property across anything else yes.
The throttle and steering throw are to start non static member variables that we need to bring across.
And let's see now everything else is used to do with replication or input binding so were going to leave
those put.
So that has brought across everything.
We are going to want in the moon campaign.
I'm defaulting to them being private but we can move things across to being public if they need to be
accessed from other classes which they probably will be.
So next up going to be moving the function implementation but I'm gonna leave that as a challenge to
you.
Seeing as we've already moved the declarations you probably know which ones to move across.
So your chain is going to be in total to make the whole thing build and run like it did before.
So where you going to do this is you're going to pull across the method implementations first.
You going to have to change the class name space from the a go cart to the you go cart movement component
can at a prefix.
Any calls to functions on the actor with get owner arrow so that we are accessing the actors function
instead of just calling the function on this object.
You need to fix any references and go cart dot c p p that referred to functions that we've now moved
across.
So you're going to have to set up the component and you're going to have to have the pointer to the
component somewhere in that go cart actor and then you're going to need to call functions on that component.
Then you need to create any access methods that you might need.
So getters and setters for variables that were previously just accessing But now we need to use through
a public interface and fix any other build errors that might crop up.
Suppose video and have a go at this rather sizable challenge.
But I'm sure quite confident you're going to be able to do it.
Okay welcome back.
So let's dive right in.
So first off the implementations Let's go in to add go carts s.p. and look for the implementation that
has to pull across.
So first of all we're gonna leave Tich beef in how we will change that later.
We are going to get simulate move and create move.
Cut those and bring them into the go cart moon component CB P and stick them at the bottom.
Go back to the go cart c p p and we're going to grab from get air resistance all the way down.
K Well let's do it in chunks because my scrolling doesn't want to do all the way down so I'm going to
go to apply rotation.
Cut that out.
You see what I'm doing here.
Pretty simple stuff now.
Update location from velocity that also needs to go across not the player input binding.
That's going to stay in the actor.
And what else what else what else that seems to be it.
We have now moved across all the functions we need.
So that is good.
So it's time to start fixing those build errors.
Well we're going to do is first of all as I've mentioned on the slides we are going to change the class
namespace so going to go into the go cart movement component c p p and do a find for a go cart.
And if I hit a little arrow next to a go cart then I can do a replace with.
I've already got this in my clipboard you go cart movement component you can copy that if you like from
the tick component anywhere else in the C++ file.
That'll do the trick.
And go ahead and replace all of those instances.
Six were replaced six will probably be replaced for you as well.
Okay.
And then what else.
So we're talking about prefixing get out now.
Well what I'm going to do at this point is actually just try building and see what is the first error
that comes up and try and fix as many errors as I can pay the bills finished that's gone have a look
at the output log and see what the first error is.
So it's saying missing type specifier.
And where is that type specify that is complaining about.
I'm not entirely clear by Am seeing something about.
An issue with F..
Go cart move.
And that's because it isn't included here.
And in fact it probably shouldn't be declared in the go cart at all because dependences if we look at
the dependency graph is from the go car act a hazard depending on the moving component not vice versa.
So we want an F go cart move to that structure.
We're going to cut it out of the head a file of a of a go cart and go into the head of go can't move
at component and create it there instead.
So that should help alleviate that issue I'm just going to fix up the indentation in those you propertys
and we will see what the next build error is.
So the next hour we get is this unrecognized type F go cart move which actually come in from the go
cart.
Dot H.
Which basically means that we are going to need to include that dependency member to do it above the
generator to H.
We need to include the go karts movement component or h.
If I can type like so and let's build again.
Okay back to the output now.
Okay lots more errors now because I think it's actually reached the C plus plus file rather than moaning
about the head of files.
So the head of files are now good.
If we go in to the first error you can see it's complaining about that get active forward vector Now
this is what I was talking about in the challenge slider was that the need prefix all the active functions.
With this get owner function.
So let's do that.
Get active forward vector needs to be prefixed with get.
Oh no.
Like so arrow.
Now I'm not going to do a null check here because I'm going to assume that this component is on an actor
and I think that's a fairly safe assumption otherwise we'd go mad with putting null checks all over
the place.
K. So what's the next such error.
We've got another get active forword some get a stick and get own a bear.
Another actor up stick in a get over there and act.
Add world rotation.
And an ad world offset.
So those all need to use get owner.
Let's go ahead and build that.
Okay.
Yet more errors this time.
We are in the go cart s.p. where we are making calls to create move but it's no longer a function on
the actor.
So we are now for fixing references in the go cart CB peak so to do this we actually need to go ahead
and create the component on this go cart so we have a reference and we're gonna need to store that in
a new property.
So I am going to create a new property which is going to be at anyway so we can edit the properties
of that component.
And it's going to be a you go cart movement component starker's give me a pointer to it and is gonna
call it the movement component.
Okay.
In our constructor we're going to create that default sub object so it's up to the constructor and we're
going to go for movement.
Components.
Is equal to.
Create should remember this by now.
Default subobject if you forgetting how to do that then the first section has lots of information about
it.
Now here we carry a passan F name or we can use the text macro grow to create ourselves automatically
an F name or an F string or whatever based on that type that's actually wanted.
And I'm going to call this just the same movement components of the copied across rather than making
spelling errors and create default some object doesn't know what type to create so I need to put my
angle brackets in here and make it a you go can't move a component like so and that should make sure
we have that component which is great and a semicolon at the end a line to stop it from complaint.
So now we should be in the position where we can.
Call create move but first of all we do need to check that it is not null because we might fail to create
a campaign for whatever reason.
So if movement component equals not point are going to do an early return and just go do it on one line.
Typically we don't want to ignore braces but when there's just a return like this is so much easier
to use this coding style so then we're going to do a movement component arrow create move and move a
component arrow simulate move and onwards and downwards for all the other cases where we have this problem
as well.
And remembering that we need to do an early return and any new methods we encounter.
So now we have this velocity in our on rep server state.
We are going to need to do an early return there as well so let's copy across earlier return code down
into the server state.
Then that we can copy across our dereferencing code of the pointer.
Ah so here we've got a private member called Velocity and we don't want to access private members directly
so we are going to create a set own so this is going to become a method which is set velocity.
With their sextape velocity as its argument and then simulate move we can just do as before.
So and then onwards onwards onwards we've got the throttle steering throw and assimulate move in the
final one.
So let's do some early returns caputo's early returns.
That need to do an early return.
E in our Send move implementation and early return.
Also in our move forward and in our move right because we can't move forward a bit of right without
a movement component or it's nonsensical if we can and then add point to dereferencing we can use for.
Okay we're gonna need a get velocity here so I can implement that one in the said move implementation.
And how about at throttle and steering throw.
Well it's going to become a set throttle with the value as the argument and it is going to become.
Also.
A set steering throw with the value as the argument.
Go ahead build that.
So let's take a look at those build errors.
We are expecting the first build error.
Is that the create move.
Can access private member so create move is private.
So simulate move further down.
We can see that there are probably going to be other errors such as get velocity not yet existing but
we're going to fix that.
We're going to go to the go kart moon compound H.
First thing we're going to do is we're going to move simulate move and create move to be public because
they're part of the public interface to this class.
You can always told me what component to simulate You can always tell it to create a new move.
What about other methods you're going need beginning at accessor methods now now with access is one
thing you can do is you can actually define them inline in the head final because they're so small.
So what I'm going to do here is first create the geter for an F vector So it's can be an f factor.
For lost he rather f vector get velocity.
And no arguments.
But it's just going to be a return.
The velocity thing and so I'm just doing all in one line because it's so short and so simple to do it
that way.
Next I'm going to have a void return setter So it's going to set velocity.
It's going to take an F vector and I'm just going to call it a vow of value for short.
And then we're going to have it set velocity.
It can be velocity equals.
Vow.
So and there we go.
So we've got a getter and set up for the velocity now for the throttle and steering.
We only use a sweater we never had to read it so I'm just going to provide setter's.
We're going to have a set and let's copy the words throttle and steering throw just for making sure
I don't make any.
Copy.
Any typing mistakes.
And we're going do a set throttle where the throttle equals vow and then we are going to do.
The same for set steering throw.
So just replacing the lost t with the steering throw and steering.
Here now is not an F vector.
So let's correct that that's going to be heard the values can be afloat in both cases.
Like so great.
So let's go ahead and build and see whether that works now.
Horray at last we have building code have probably done it probably fixed all the building errors.
So if we go to the play menu and make sure we are playing with one player and then a play in the selected
viewport.
Then what I want to do is and I want to f 8 hour here select my car and go into the details pane just
to check.
We've got our component there.
Yes we've got a movement component if I click on it says inherited which it should be because it's there
C++ is the parent class of the blueprint and you can see in the go cart Moven component.
We've got all those properties to do with mass and driving force and so on and so forth much more better
organized in the right sort of place.
And if we go and repossess mines gone into a load menu here Reaper's there's my authority you can see
us can still move it around.
So my moving component seems to be working.
Let's try in a multiplayer scenario.
So create two players and we're going to do a new editor window.
Let's try and have them side by side.
Here we go.
So authorities moving around.
And yes he is visible to the autonomous proxy.
What about Vice versa.
Tom's proxies he must be moving just fine which is nice.
And he's also visible to the authority.
So that's wonderful I refactor has worked.
We pulled out the first component which is a movement component.
Our in next lecture.
Well we'll be working on that replication.